Background:
What is a web server?
A Web server is a program that uses HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) to 
serve the files that form Web pages to users, in response to their requests,
which are forwarded by their computers' HTTP clients.

What is Apache?
Originating in 1995, The Apache HTTP Server, is a free and open-source 
cross-platform web server, Approximately half of all web servers on the
internet today are running Apache. The origins of the internet as we know
it are because of the existence of the Apache HTTP Server.

Popular sites using Apache
Baidu.com
Vk.com
Ok.ru
Hao123.com
Wikia.com
Apple.com
Paypal.com
Tribunnews.com
Adobe.com
Nicovideo.jp

What is a SQL Injection?
SQL injection is a type of security exploit in which the attacker adds SQL
code to a Web form input box to gain access to resources or make changes to
data.

Analysis:

Using 51 access logs from a small server that had all databases and PHP
removed in order to avoid SQL injection and other similar security 
vunerabilities, we analyzed traffic from March 2015-December 2015 and 
February 2018-April 2018. This server had intentionally been left offline 
since the end of 2015 in order to "fall off the radar" of many bots and 
potential attacks.

We attempted to find the geolocations of each website visit, then analyze
the traffic for potential threats by comparing the IPs to those on known
malware lists and by the methods used, URL requested, and user agents making
the request.

Results:

Though several years had passed between the two sets of logs, the primary
types of entry methods were the same.

Also, there is a script that is run all over the world using urllib that
is looking for a particular photo of a cat. This photo is still online, but
not in the same location as 10 years ago.


Visualization:

Mae Ling: Bar chart of hits by suspicious key words 2015 by percentage of 
total hits.

Mae Ling: Bar chart of hits by suspicious key words 2018 by percentage of
total hits.

One can see the difference between traffic on these two charts after having
been offline for 3 years. While there is more data for 2015 than 2018, the
type of attempted entry had very little change. In 2015 one can see
that the blog, "Ramble", was still a target, even though it had been
removed sometime around 2010.

Though the percentage of hits dramatically decreases after being offline
for so long, the attempts remain the same, illustrating that SQL injection
or an attempt to hijack a poorly secured login remains a popular method
of entry to a server. 

Mae Ling: Combined 2018 & 2018 suspicious key words.
Mae Ling: World map of key words by type of login attempted.
Mae Ling" Cat photo that everyone wants.

There is overlap between the keywords "admin" and "setup". As you can see
from the 2018 bar chart, the gap is when "admin" and "login" overlap.

These words were chosen primarily to look for attempted SQL injection or
other type of login vunerabilities. We also looked at the user agents
that were scripts instead of browsers (urllib and curl).

There are hits from every continent except Antartica because they have
better things to do.

Team:
(I always alphabetize so that no one has priority)

Erik, Harry, Hitesh, Mae Ling, Pierre

OR

Bhanushali, Hitesh; Mak, Mae Ling; Ramstad, Erik; Vernet, Pierre; Yu, Harry
